# Evaluating the Impact of Two Climate Change Scenarios on Habitat Suitability for Broad-Toothed Rats _Mastacomys fuscus_ in South-East Australia
Repository containing notebooks used to determine changes to suitable habitat for broad-toothed rats (_Mastacomys fuscus_) under different climate scenarios.

## ABSTRACT
Climate change is projected to have significant impacts on the spatial distribution of organisms. Warming and reduced precipitation place cool-climate specialists such as the broad-toothed rat (_Mastacomys fuscus_) at particular risk of significant habitat loss. This study aims to evaluate the potential impact of climate change on (_Mastacomys fuscus_) habitat suitability. With species occurrence data, seven bioclimatic variables are assessed, encompassing annual, seasonal and monthly trends for temperature and precipitation, in addition to elevation data, examining two potential climate scenarios of medium and very high severity (SSP245 and SSP585, respectively) for the climatic periods 2041-2060 and 2081-2100. Statistical analysis of these environmental conditions were performed using ten different statistical models, and six modelling algorithms to produce an ensemble model. Future suitable habitat areas were inferred from these models and range change was analysed for each projected climate scenario for all variables. The results indicate a significant decrease in suitable habitat for _Mastacomys fuscus_ with up to 95.716% loss of the current suitable habitat under SSP585 by 2100. All scenarios reveal a significant overall loss of suitable habitat. Also observed under all scenarios is a gain in new suitable habitat in Tasmania, with an up to 25% gain under SSP245 by 2060. The mainland population is at serious risk of extinction with habitat contracting to higher elevations under all scenarios with less than 5% of the original range remaining in the mainland. The persistence of the Tasmanian population will depend upon the capability for dispersal of _Mastacomys fuscus_ and land use in this region. This information should be integrated into long-term decision making regarding the conservation and management of _Mastacomys fuscus_ to protect these regions and facilitate migration where feasible.
